# Lecture 1 - Introduction to Software Evolution
<small>2015-10-26 - Vadim Zaytsev</small>

The slides to this lecture can be found [here](software-evolution/resources/lectures/lecture1 - Introduction.pdf).

### Setup

##### Why Study Software Evolution

*   Learn from past
*   Reason about made choices
*   Reason about the effect of evolution.

##### What will you do in this course

Learn how to analyse software and write tooling to do this.

*   Write metrics
*   Code clone detection software
*   Write essay

There is a honours track, but without a bonus.

### Software Types <small>Slide 12</small>

There are 3 types of software

*   Most software are E-type
*   Types are scope related.

##### S-type (specification)

*   software-testing knowledge
*   Know all information. Problem is commonly known. Allows:
    *   Pre- and postcondition
    *   Automated testing
*   Software **does not evolve**

Example of such software is a sorting algorithm.

##### P-type (problem solving)

*   Models to the real world (imperfectly)
*   Can be outperformed
*   Qualitative acceptance
*   Requirements or abstract of the world changes.
*   Can **evolve continuously**

Example: Chess, Siri, climate prediction

##### E-type (embedded)

Embedded implies embedded in the real world.

*   Solution is part of the world (a product)
*   Acceptance is subjective
*   Inherently evolving

Example: Facebook

### Lehman's Laws

Laws are needed because the software world is not real.

1.  Continuing Change
    *   E-type systems rot when not changed
2.  Increasing Complexity
    *   Evolving results in complexity
    *   E-type systems tend to be more complex
3.  Self-regulating
    *   TODO
4.  Invariant Work Rate
    *   Development activity is invariant.
    *   Speed of change is constant (based on equal resources).
5.  Conservation of Familiarity
    *   E-system changes per release
    *   Never too little or too much
6.  Continuing Growth
    *   Add features too keep users happy
    *   Expectation Creep
7.  Declining Quality
    *   The perceived quality will change when it exists longer
8.  Feedback System
    *   multi-level: hardware/environment changes
    *   multi-loop: different implementations/releases
    *   multi-agent: developers change

### Maintenance Types

The modification of software products after delivery

*   to correct faults
*   to improve performance or other attributes
*   or to adapt the product to a modified environment

**Types**

*   Corrective: bugs
*   Adaptive: environment
*   Perfective: performance, nice refactoring
*   Preventive: to top competitors

(slide 33) percentage is over 100% of commits. Study from 1980.

### Top 5 problems

See slide 35.
