# Lecture 8 - Belgian Compilers in the Wild
<small>2015-12-12 - Darius Blasband</small>

## What is a legacy software system?

*   Large and complex: years, debug, adequate
*   Critical: runs the business
*   Unique: there is no package
*   Old and legacy: This starts at day one
*   Valuable: all above
*   Unknown: Not possible to answer non-trivial questions

Bear in mind:

*   Banks, governments, insurance companies
*   You may not like the system you are working with
*   These system run our lives.

## Problem

**Obvious:**

*   Concrete: Technique, hardware, program language
*   Not obsolete
*   Depends on obsolete components

**Vendors**

*   Retire products
*   Increase price
*   Revert to blackmail
*   Die

**Skilled people**

*   Retire
*   Raise
*   Revert to blackmail
*   Die

## Legacy Modernisation

*   Extending live
*   Remove and replicate system
*   Without altering the functionality
    *   Critical
    *   Value
    *   (unknown)
*   Not universal

## Constraints

*   Deal with it! Life is not easy.
*   Size: 99% is not enough over 10M lines of code.
*   Operations
    *   Data migration
    *   Deployment
    *   People-ware
*   Fight big boys

## The silver lining

*   Money. For its own rights and allows ambitious solutions.
*   Make a difference
*   Having a say
    *   It is not about what the customer wants (he is facing the wall).
    *   It is about what can.
*   Fighting the big boys

## Why redevelopment fails

*   Statistically independent events. It is a new project
*   Self inflicted optimistic blindness. I will succeed!
*   Over-engineering and excessive ambition. We want to deal with a class of problems instead of a simple thing.
*   Cost of two ongoing systems

## A scattered market

*   Approach
    *   Transformation
    *   Emulate
    *   Compile
    *   Re-architect
*   Divided in a collection of tech _niches_
    *   Database
    *   Hardware
    *   Transaction processing
    *   Language
*   There is no one-stop-shop

## Important ideas

*   Formalise transformations and proof they are correct
*   Fixing bugs is not an option.
*   Interactive?
